Let’s look in a bit more detail at food,
a fundamental requirement for human life.
The United Nations predicts that by the year
2050, we will need a 70% increase in food
production. Not all of this is due to increase
population. A lot of it is due to the requirements
of many of the people on our planet to have
more food than they’re currently getting
and perhaps higher quality food, higher calorific
value food. So, a big requirement to increase
food production and 70% is a massive increase
to be achieved in something like 30 years.
It’s pretty obvious that we need food for
people to eat. We also need food for animals
to eat. They are part of our food chain. So,
a lot of the food that we produce is eaten
by animals and in turn, many of us eat those
animals.
A somewhat surprising use for food is putting
it in cars. There’s quite a movement to
turn food product, particularly corn into
ethanol and we put the ethanol into the gas
tanks of our cars. So, there’s a lot of
competition for the food that we produce.
Absolutely, we want food for people to eat
but there’s also food that’s required
to feed animals and there’s also food that’s
required to feed cars.
As our population grows, so too does the size
of our cities. The cities get larger; they
encroach on productive farmland. They take
that land out of food production because we
build houses and apartments on it, so that
means we have less land on which to grow food.
Now, this is a problem because overall we
need to grow more food and we’re removing
land which is the essential resource when
it comes to food production.
Another issue is that farmers as a population
are getting older. This statistic is from
my country, Australia, and we look at this
histogram here and it shows that the average
age of farmers is well above 50. There's not
young people moving into farming as a profession
or as a lifestyle. A very scary statistic
in my country, Australia, is that in the next
decade, half of the farmers are going to retire.
So, who’s going to do the work on the land
to produce the food that we need?
So, one of the opportunities for robotics
is to help and solve this food production
problem. One application is to convert these
large machines which are used in industrial
scale food production. Instead of having a
human being on board the machine driving it,
we turn it into a robotic vehicle so it can
drive all by itself, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Another thing we can do is to replace human-driven
machines which are used to spray crops in
the field and we spray the crops to eliminate
insect and weed pests. Rather than doing indiscriminate
spraying as you see here, we can have much
more intelligent, robotic systems which move
perhaps more slowly through the crop and use
vision sensors which identify insects pests
or undesirable plants which we call weeds
and apply the appropriate chemical to just
where that occurrence is, not indiscriminately,
not everywhere. That’s got huge environmental
benefits and it’s also got huge cost benefits
because we can reduce the amount of chemical
that needs to be applied.
The use of chemical herbicides to control
weeds has led to an unexpected outcome and
that is that many weed species have now evolved
a resistance to these standard herbicides.
That presents a particular challenge to an
agricultural system which has developed over
decades and become incredibly reliant on the
use of herbicides for weed control. So, perhaps
smart robots could identify weeds in the soil
and destroy them mechanically as shown here,
actually disturb the soil around the weed
to destroy the weed.
Here’s a video of a robot we’ve developed
in a research project in my lab here at QUT.
This is an early prototype of our weed spraying
robot. It’s a very small machine. It’s
guided by cameras and other sorts of sensors.
It can navigate along crop rows and apply
herbicide only where it’s required.